Add error handling fundamentals to Data Groups Sprint 1 (#1949)
CodeYourFuture/curriculum: common-content/en/module/js2/throw-or-return/index.md

+++
title = 'Throw or return?'

time = 10
[objectives]
    1='Decide whether a function should throw an error or return a value'
    2='Identify where in a program an error should be handled'
[build]
  render = 'never'
  list = 'local'
  publishResources = false

+++

We now have two ways for a function to respond when it meets a problem: return a value, or throw an error. How do we choose?

### Expected situations: use a return value

> If a situation is a normal part of using the function, handle it with ordinary code. Searching an array for a value that isn't there is not an error; that's why [`indexOf`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/indexOf) returns `-1` rather than throwing. The caller expects both outcomes and can check with an `if`.

Reviewer: Let's add some guidance on what value to choose, maybe with some examples? e.g. that `-1` is a good thing to return from `indexOf` because it probably fits in with how it's used (whereas returning `null` would be more annoying), that string methods may want to return `""` or `null` depending on context, etc?

Author: Done

  answers="Throw an error | Return '25:00 am' | Return undefined"
  feedback="Right. The function cannot format a time that does not exist: the caller should have prevented this, so failing fast points at the real bug. | This looks like an answer, so the caller carries on displaying a nonsense time to users. | Returning undefined is quieter than throwing but just as unhelpful: the caller gets a strange value with no explanation of what went wrong."
  correct="0"
>}}

{{<multiple-choice
  question="A user types 'eleven' into a form field asking how many tickets they want. What should the program do?"
  answers="Check the input and show the user a helpful message | Throw an error | Nothing, the input is fine"
  feedback="Right. Users typing unexpected things is normal human behaviour, not a bug, so handle it with ordinary conditional logic. | A person mistyping is an expected situation, not a broken expectation in our code. Throwing turns normal use into a crash. | 'eleven' is not a number, so the program cannot book eleven tickets without dealing with it somehow."
  correct="0"
>}}

> {{<multiple-choice

Reviewer: I'd maybe answer this with "it depends"? Sometimes "continue despite bad data" is a useful answer for a user and sometimes "error if _anything_ is wrong" is a useful answer...

Author: I have to choose answer as the valid answer in the quiz question but I have expanded the answer to give a more rounded answer

  question="A program producing a summary of 100 data files finds that one file is corrupted. What should the summary loop do?"
  answers="Catch the error, report the bad file, and continue | Let the whole program crash | Silently skip the file"
  feedback="Right. The loop can do something useful with the error: skip the bad file, tell the user about it, and still summarise the other 99. | Crashing throws away 99 files of good work when the loop could recover and report the problem instead. | This swallows the error: the summary is quietly missing a file and nobody knows to fix it."
  correct="0"
>}}

{{<multiple-choice
  question="divide(a, b) is called with b equal to 0. What should divide do?"
  answers="Throw an error | Return 0 | Return Infinity because that is what JavaScript does"

>   feedback="Right. divide cannot do what its name promises with a zero divisor, and a zero here usually means a bug in the calling code. Some teams make a different, documented choice, but it must be a deliberate one. | Zero is a made-up answer that hides the caller's bug and will be used as if it were real. | JavaScript's own operator does evaluate to Infinity, but for our function that quietly passes a strange value along instead of surfacing the problem where it happened."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  feedback="Right. divide cannot do what its name promises with a zero divisor, and a zero here usually means a bug in the calling code. Some teams make a different, documented choice, but it must be a deliberate one. | Zero is a made-up answer that hides the caller's bug and will be used as if it were real. | JavaScript's own operator does evaluate to Infinity, but for our function that would quietly pass a strange value along instead of surfacing the problem where it happened."
```

Author: Done
